Meaning of indrustialization
The process by which an economi is transformed from a primarily agricultural 1 to 1 based on the manufacturing of goods
Indivisual manual labour is often replaced by machanised mass pruduction and the craftmans are replaced by machine 


Explain the following statement 
1)Britain came to be known as the workshop of the world.
Ans:-Mechanised production of cotton textiles and iron and steel industry made the britain came to be konown as the workshop of the world.


What is muslin?
Ans:-1)European traders first encountered fine cotton cloth from india carried by Arab merchants in Mosul in present day Iraq.
2)From the place mosul they derived the term muslin.


How the name calico is drived from for indian cotton textile?
Ans:-When the Protuguese first came to india in search of spices they landed in Calicut on the Kerala coast in south-west India.
The cotton textile which they took back to europe along with spices came to be called as calico.


Write the note Jamdani.
Ans:-1)Jamdani is fine muslin on which decorative motifs are woven on the loom.
2)Typically it is in grey and white colour.
3)Often a mixture of cotton and gold thread was used.
4)It is a famous cloth of Decca in bengal and lucknow in Madhya pradesh


What is chintz?
Ans:-Chintz is derived from Chhint, a cloth with colourful flowerey design.


What is bandanna?
Ans:-It refers to any brightly coloured and printed scarf for the neck or head.
Bandanna is derived from the hindi word bandhna and the cloth is produced through a method of tying and dying.


calico act of 1720
1)After the dicoverey of Spinning Jenny the production of cotton textile in europe was increased by multifold
2)The european people were interested in buying Indian textile only.
3)This way european traders have to commpit with indian textile
4)This way the traders appleaed to government to banned the entry of indian textile in britain.
5)Finally in 1720 the british government enacted a legislation banning the entry of printed cotton textiles in britain. 


Who were the weavers?
Ans:-Tanti - the community of weavers of bengal
Kaikolar and devangs were the weavers community of south india.


Procedure of making Hand loom textile
Ans:-1)Ginning- to seperate the seeds from cotton balls
2)Spinning- the thread was spun on the charkha and rolled on the takhli 
3)The spindels of thread then set on the loom and the thread was woven into cloth by the weavers.
4)The rangrez were the dyers who dyed the white cotton cloth into coloured one.
5)Chhipigars were specialized block printers who print the cloth.
This way hand loom textile occupations was associated with livlihood of millions of Indians.


How the indian textile buissness was declined 
The developement of cotton industries in britain affected textiole producers in india in several ways
1)Indian textile now had to compit with British textiles in European and American markets.
2)The british government imposed heavy duty on Indian textile.
3)Ultimately the price of the Indian textile increased drasticaly This way price of the textile became beyond the capacity of customers and they stop buyinf indian textile.
4)The indian textile successfully thrown out from the market in Africa, America and Europe.
5)Thousands of weavers in India were now thrown out of employment
This way the indian textile declined.


Meaning of Aurang - Stor house or Godown or Warehouse


When and were the first cottoon mills in India was set up?
Ans:-In Bombay in 1854


THE FIRST Mill in ahemdabad was stared in which year?
Ans:-In 1861


Write a note a wootz steel
Ans:-1)The sword of tipu sultan was made up of Wootz steel.
2)Wootz is an anglicised version of the Kannada word ukku, Telgu hukku and tamil and Malyaalam urukku meaning steel.
3)The European scientist spent four years studying the properties of Indian Wootz (1818-22).
4)The sord han an incredibly hard and sharp edge that could easily rip through the opponent's armour.
5)The wootz steel when made into sword prroduced a very sharp edge with a flowing water pattern.


The reason behind the declined of iron smelters in India
Ans:-1)The iron smelters needed iron ore and wood for charcoal as a raw material.
2)The british introduced a forest law which banned the entry of people into the forest.
3)If people would entry into the forest secreatly it was considered as a crime and they were getting hard punishment.
4)If the forest dipartment allowed the entry of iron smelter in some places they had put exorbitain tax on each furnase which reduced the income of iron smelters.
5)As britain started importing iron and steel in India it diplaced the iron and steel produced by iron smelters in India.
This were the reason for the declined of iron smelters in India. 


Write a note on TISCO (Tata iron and steel company) 
Ans:-TISCO was set up on bank of river suvernarekha at jamshetpure  
2)In 1914 the first world was broke out, the steel produce in britain now had to meet the demands of war in Europe
3)Because of these the colonial government turn to TISCO for supply of rails.
4)As the war dragged on for several years, TISCO had to produce shells and carriage wheels for the war.
5)By 1919 the colonial government was buying 90% of steel manufactured of TISCO over the time TISCO became biggest steel industry within the British empire.


